#summary Using Data from read()

= Introduction =

{{{
$user = new User();
$data = $user->read();
}}}

The $data is an associative array format is

{{{
$data[0] -> $row1
$data[1] -> $row2
$data[2] -> $row3
}}}

where $row1 is again an associative array like

$row1['columnName'] => value in table

== Smart Assign Function ==

Now one frequently used task is to extract data from the table and display it.
A very quick way to do this is

{{{
$user = new User();
$data = $user->read();
foreach($data as $row){
 $user->smartAssign($row); 
 echo $user;
}
}}}

Here the function smartAssign set a the values of all variables in the $user object with $row array. Bascially, it gets the column name $row array, converts it to variable name from the $`_`field array and then sets the value in the object. So, in the current case, all the member variables of the user object are set.

There another new feature in this code i.e {{{ echo $user; }}}. The ability to each a SmartModel class. This echo will properly display the values of each variable of the object. 

So output of the above code is:
username : manish_iitg
usertype : 1
id : 2


smartAssign() when passed with no parameter, it reads from the $_REQUEST[] array and assings member variable of the class. This is very useful feature during form submission.



=== GETTER and SETTER ===

All member variables of SmartModel have getter and settings

meaning

{{{
$user = new User();
$data = $user->read();
foreach($data as $row){
 $user->smartAssign($row); 
 echo $user->id.'---'.$user->getID().'---'.$user->getId();
 echo $user->username.'---'.$user->getUsername().'---'.$user->getUSERname();
 $user->setUsername('manish');
}
}}}

All getters and setters are case insensitive as can be seen in the code. 

$user->getID() returns empty string when id is not set and the values of id when id is set.


=== Reset function ===


{{{
$user = new User();
$data = $user->read();
foreach($data as $row){
 $user->smartAssign($row); 
 echo $user;
 $user->reset();
 echo $user;
}
}}}

The reset() method removed everything from User Object, which is in the $`_`fields array.


=== Using where condition with Read() ===


Lets start with basic example

{{{
$user=new User();
$where=array('id'=>1,'status'=>'active');
$data=$user->read(null,$where);
}}}
this will return an array for condition id=1 and status=active

To use OR condition 

{{{
$user=new User();
$where=array(
'member' => 7,
'id'=> array(7,Model::MODEL_WHERE_TYPE_EQ,Model::MODEL_WHERE_TYPE_OR)
);
$data=$user->read(null,$where);
}}}
where condition becomes "where member=7 or id=1"

To use NOTEQUAL to Condition

{{{
$user=new User();
$where = array('id'=> array(6,Model::MODEL_WHERE_TYPE_NOTEQ));
$data=$user->read(null,$where);
}}}
Condition becomes "where id !=6"

To use IN condition

{{{
$user=new User();
$cla='(7,1,2)';
$where = array('member' => array($cla,Model::MODEL_WHERE_TYPE_IN));
$data = $user->read(null,$where);
}}}

condition becomes "where `member` IN (7,1,2)"

To use LIKE condition

{{{
$user=new User();
$value=7;
$where = array('member'=>array("%$value%",Model::MODEL_WHERE_TYPE_LIKE));
$data = $user->read(null,$where);
}}} 

Condition becomes "where `member` LIKE '%7%'"

TO use GREATER condition
{{{
$user=new User();
$where = array('id'=> array(6,Model::MODEL_WHERE_TYPE_GT));
$data = $user->read(null,$re);
}}}

Condition becomes "where `id` >6"
(Similary for GREATER THAN EQUAL TO use Model::MODEL_WHERE_TYPE_GTEQ)


TO use SMALLER condition
{{{
$user=new User();
$where = array('id'=> array(6,Model::MODEL_WHERE_TYPE_LT));
$data = $user->read(null,$re);
}}}

Condition becomes "where `id` <6"
(Similary for SMALLER THAN EQUAL TO use Model::MODEL_WHERE_TYPE_LTWQ)
