#summary Basics of UI Implementation.

= Introduction =

This section explains basic UI and basic UI functions.

= Implementing UI =

#First step would be to build a model for a table.
 
#Next, you have to make an object of that model.
    eg: $log= new ModelName();
#Now you have to make an object of UI.
    eg: $Ui=new UI($log);
#To actually display UI use following syntax: 
    $Ui->smartUI()

#You have Successfully implemented UI of the Model.


=Basic Functions of UI=

===setFormFieldMapping($array)===

$array is a Key=>Value pairs where "Keys" are Name of Model Variable and "Values" are the field type of that variable.

Example: setFormFieldMapping("name"=>FormUI::FORM_FIELD_TEXTFIELD)
 where "name" is Model variable name and "FormUI::FORM_FIELD_TEXTFIELD" is its Field type i.e Textfield.

===setColumnNameMapping($array)===

$array defines Key=>Value pair where "Keys" are Name of Model Variable and "Values" are the Column name to be displayed.

Example: setColumnNameMapping("name"=>"Name of the candidate")
 where "name" is Model variable name and "Name of the candidate" is column name to be displayed in UI.

===setFormNameMap($array)===

$array defines Key=>Value pair where "Keys" are Name of Model Variable and "Values" are the Form name to be displayed.

Example: setFormNameMap("name"=>"Name of the candidate")
 where "name" is Model variable name and "Name of the candidate" is Form name to be displayed in UI.

===setColumnOrder($array)===

$array defines Key=>Value pair where "Keys" are Model Variable names and "Values" are display order of respective column.

Example: setColumnOrder(array('ModelName.ModelVariable'=>'1','Id'=>'2');