#summary Custom Functions in UI.

= Introduction =

This tutorial deals with custom Custom functions of UI.

=Functions=

===setColumnMapping($array)=== 

Defines Custom Column Mapping.

====Details:====

$array in above Function takes key=>value pairs where keys are name of column to be mapped and values are function name to be mapped with it. Here function name specifies the function to be called for particular column.It takes value parameter for current row. This function can be used to display custom content and it returns the custom content in place of column name as an Array.

====Example:====

    setColumnMapping(array("id"=>"statusfunction")); 

    function statusfunction($value){ 
      If($value){
       return "Yes";
       }
      else{
        return "No";
        }
    } 
where id=>idname is key value pair, id is column name to be mapped and idname is custom function name to be called."$value" is value of each row cell passed to the function, on the basis of "$value" value it returns "Yes or No".

===setFormValueMapFunc($array){}===

Defines Custom Form Mapping. It is similar to Column Mapping.

====Details:====

$array in above Function takes key=>value pairs where keys are name of form to be mapped and values are function name to be mapped with it. Here function name specifies the function to be called for particular form name.This function can be used to display custom content and it returns the custom content in place of form name as an Array.


===addCustomFilter($array){}===

Add a Custom Filter.It is similar to where clause in sql query. 

====Details:====

$array takes key=>value pair where key is Model variable Column name and Value is name of variable to be passed similar to where clause condtion. 

====Example:====

addCustomFilter(array( "id"=>"$variableid"));

In this id=>$variableid pair "id" is Model Column name and "$variableid" is name of variable to be passed. 

===AddModel($array){}===

Join two models in UI.It is similar to Default Inner Join in Sql Query.

====Details:====

$array takes key=>value pair where key is the First Model Column name and value is Second Model Column name to be joined with it. Column names are not the actual Db names but the variable names in models. It returns the columns from joined models. 

====Example:====

$array=array('id'=>'Second Model name.id');

AddModel($array); In this example id=>Second Model name.id is a key value pair, id is Model Column name of First Model and Second Model name.id is second model column name. 

===setHideColumn($array)===

====Details:====

This function is used to hide the columns which are not required by user.

====Example:====

setHideColumn(array('id','firstname');

This hides the column "id" and "firstname" while displaying other columns. Column names are Model variable names.

===setDefaultURLParams($array)===

It sets the default parameters that will be send when the page is reloaded or submitted. It retains the value of variable even after submiting or reloading page. 

====Details:====

$array is key=>value pair, where "key" is Url variables and "value" is value of that parameter